h1. How to compile and install Monit at CentOs

Reference: http://mmonit.com/

h3. Downloading Packages:

Monit - http://mmonit.com/monit/download/


h3. Unpacking:

<pre> <code>$ tar -xzvf monit-5.4.tar.gz</code> </pre>


h3. Installing:

<pre><code># Entering in the Monit directory
$ cd monit-5.4

# Run the configure setting the prefix path and disabling PAM and SSL
$ ./configure --prefix=/opt/monit --without-pam --without-ssl

$ make

$ make install 

#Creating the log directory (if you want to change it)
$ mkdir /opt/monit/logs/

#Creating the monitors directory
$ mkdir /opt/monit/monit.d/</code></pre>


h3. Configuring (see the sample file "sample.monitrc"):

Change te file "/etc/monitrc" adding the lines below:
<pre><code>set logfile /opt/monit/logs/monit.log

set mailserver smtp.mydomain.com,

set alert yourmail@mydomain.com only on { timeout }

include /opt/monit/monit.d/*</code></pre>

In the same file, change the following lines:
<pre><code>set httpd port 2812 and
   use address 10.249.1.112  # IP Listen of the internal server
   allow 10.249.1.112        # allow localhost to connect to the server (enable use of "./monit status"),
   allow 10.2.0.0/16         # allow net 10.2.0.0/16 to connect to the server and
   allow admin:monit         # require user 'admin' with password 'monit'</code></pre>

And finally, comment the lines below (because were not using pam and ssl): 
<pre><code>#    allow @monit           # allow users of group 'monit' to connect (rw)
 ##    allow @users readonly  # allow users of group 'users' to connect readonly</code></pre>


h3. Creating a basic monitor to an apache server (See the sample file "sample.include.apache"):

Inside the directory set in the "include" section at "/etc/monitrc" (in our case "/opt/monit/monit.d/"), create a new file:
<pre><code>$ vim /opt/monit/monit.d/apache</code></pre>

In this file, insert the following lines:
<pre><code>check process apache with pidfile /opt/apache2.4.2/logs/httpd.pid
 start program = "/opt/apache2.4.2/bin/apachectl start" with timeout 60 seconds
 stop program  = "/opt/apache2.4.2/bin/apachectl stop"
 if failed host 10.249.1.112 port 80 protocol http 
    and request "/healthcheck.html"
    then restart
    if 3 restarts within 20 cycles then alert
group server</code></pre>


h3. Starting the monit daemon:
<pre><code>$ ./monit -d 60</code></pre>


h2. Author:

Rafael Inocencio <rafael_rci@yahoo.com.br>
https://github.com/rcicm
